# Deep Learning the Structure of Brain States of Motivation

Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with specific cognitive and motor symptomatology consistent with movement weakening, including hypokinesia and bradykinesia. However, it remains to be determined whether these result from a deficit of the motor or motivational brain subsystems. The goal of this project is to use data science methods to assess these differences. 

Previous work on this topic, in the context of analysis of temporal EEG series from PD patients, has identified that different motivational states may be induced through external rewarding stimuli or social categorization, and identified with machine learning classifiers. To this end, we used 1-Nearest Neighbour (1NN) and Multinomial Logistic Regression (MLR) classifiers. However, little is known about the specifics of the network underlying the neuro-dynamics of motivation and the differences allowing these classifiers to succeed at identifying these brain states, as well as the presence or absence of PD-related medication.
Based on these results, we propose to address this problem by means of deep-learning techniques. The resulting architecture will be used to classify different classes depending on three dimensions: the subjects performing the experiments (PD patients or healthy people), the medication (on/off), and their motivational state (0-1-2). We expect to find relations between the areas of the brain and the neurons in the neural network, which could help us to characterize the dynamics of the system.

To this end, we will first train a simple neural network that classifies the six possible classes over PD patients, using three different kinds of features: EEG signals, covariances, and correlations of those EEG signals. If this works properly, we will standardize the EEG recordings from PD patients and the control data from healthy participants. The next step will consist of performing a classification, taking into account PD patients and healthy participants. We expect to find similar behaviors between patients on medication and healthy participants, but differing behaviors between patients off medication and the other groups.

Additionally, in case we have enough time, we could take into account the temporal component. The inputs we are using can correspond to periods between 1200 and 1600 milliseconds but, for now, they are treated as stationary. Using a temporal approach may help to find a better distinction between classes. 
